This week on the podcast, strap yourself
in for another great one. Liz Ann
Saunders, chief investment strategist at
Schwab, helping to manage $11 trillion
in client assets.
What a fascinating career she's had.
She's been on all of the best of lists.
She's just really insightful. What she
does is really kind of unique. She
combines top-down market analysis with
looking at everything from sentiment to
economic data, to fund flows, to really
what the clients of Schwab are doing.
I know Liz for almost 25 years. Every
time I speak with her, it's always
great. This is another conversation that
is also fabulous. With no further ado,
my discussion with Liz Ann Saunders.
[Music]
Liz Ann, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Always great to see you.
>> I know, it's always I always have so
much
>> other for a long time.
>> time. It's always so much fun chatting
with you. I want to talk about what
you're doing with the podcast and what
you're doing at Schwab, but I have to
start with a little bit of your
background. Undergraduate economics and
poli sci at Delaware, MBA in finance
from Fordham, which at the time you went
there it was a called Gabelli.
>> No, it was not. That's not what it was
called. It was the Gabelli School of
Business.
>> Was the career plan always Wall Street?
>> Uh no.
Um I I I honestly I I think if you
brought me back to my college days and
asked, "What is your career plan?" If I
was honest, I probably would have said,
"Not quite sure yet." I The The decision
to do a double major there was to keep
it very open and broad. All I knew was
that I wanted to live and work in New
York City. So, got out of undergrad,
pounded the pavement in New York, but
but across a spectrum of industries, not
all Wall Street. I I interviewed at a
sports marketing firm and an ad agency
uh and I had two interviews in a row at
Zweig Avatar. Uh did a lot of research
on the company, which by the way, this
was in 1986. So, doing research on a
company meant going to the library,
pulling up a microfiche machine,
actually cranking the handle, and look
at newspaper clippings. And was
fascinated by Marty Zweig, the the
co-founder, and
enjoyed the interview process, liked the
people uh with whom I met, and I don't
know, a little voice just said, "This
This seems to make sense." And I recall
reading a book Marty Zweig wrote. I want
to say in the late '90s when I was on a
trading desk, Winning on Wall Street.
>> Late '80s Well, I got his book when I
started around the time of the Netscape
IPO. That's
>> He He did um you know, newer versions.
He did
uh updated versions, but I think
>> So, whatever that version was in '96,
'97, and I vividly recall that, how did
you How did you get the gig with Marty
Zweig? What was that like?
>> Uh it I was a grunt at the outset. I did
whatever they needed me
uh to do, but they were a firm that
believed in promoting from within and
educating their young people. So, I saw
that as an opportunity. Uh they they
paid for uh grad school 100%. So, I made
the easy financial decision to do that
at night
while uh still earning a living and
having my education uh paid for.
And so many things that I learned from
Marty. I consider him the the first
mentor, whether he realized it or or
not. People by the way, people don't
realize, especially the generation that
came of age in 2000, what a legend he
was.
>> think at one point in time he owned the
the most expensive apartment in the
United States. Is that Is that true?
>> Uh yes, it was the top three floors of
the Pierre, which um is now owned by uh
the Commerce Secretary. Huh. That's
amazing. And he was always the answer
to, "Hey, do any of these technicians
make any money?" And the answer was,
"Yeah, look at Marty Zweig."
>> I mean, for for the younger folks, go
look up Marty Zweig. He was absolutely a
legend. I remember him from my early
days because he was on Rukeyser. He was
one of the originals on on the original
Wall Street Week.
>> Yep. I mean, back in the day when all
the financial media was an hour of
television a week.
>> even a half hour. 8:30 p.m. Friday
nights
>> That's right.
>> on PBS uh produced by Maryland Public
Television. And Marty was not only one
of the original panelists, he was I
think the original elf Mhm. as as Lou
used to uh describe them.
>> The people who came back on a regular
>> another thing that intrigued me about
joining the firm is I remember getting a
little bit of a kind of a wink wink nod
nod from a uh an economics professor
that I had, not just to me, but to the
class.
And he made a funny comment about uh
given that one of the the jobs that we
had as students was to read the Wall
Street Journal every day and just keep
up on markets and the economy. And that
if you had too many late nights at the
Stone Balloon, uh you might want to just
get a
really brilliant 30-minute recap by
watching Wall Street Week on Friday
night before you then go out. So, I
thought, "All right, I'll see what this
Wall Street Week is all about." And so,
I started watching it before I joined
the business, before I started
uh at at Zweig Avatar. And uh and then I
joined the show in uh 1997, which was
surreal. So, you were not that far out
of school when you started.
>> Well, I was Yeah, I was 11 years. Uh so,
uh since you and I have talked about um
our first experience together, which was
on TV, your first
>> TV appearance on Kudlow, right? And I I
I went on the show as a special guest.
So, I remember getting the the
little, you know, pink slip from the
receptionist
that told you who had called. Uh there
was voicemail at that time. It said,
>> Rukeyser called.
>> Like Rich De Brouth, the producer of
Wall Street Week, called. They'd like
you to come on as a guest. And I thought
it was somebody playing a prank on me.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah. Uh until I called and it was
legit. And I went on as a a guest. And
then in uh shortly after that, they
asked me to become a regular uh
panelist. And it was a thrill. So, you
were Zweig for a number of years. How
did you end up go 13 years? Wow, that's
a long time.
>> to '99. How did you end up at US Trust?
So, that was kind of funny. I So, I was
on the Avatar side of the Zweig Avatar
broad uh set of companies, which was the
institutional money management side. I
was a portfolio manager, co-ran stock
selection,
but I was always much more intrigued by,
interested in, and with a desire to
spend more of my time doing top-down
macro uh research.
>> to bottom-up stock selection.
>> bottom I just it it The The inner voice
said,
"You don't really love this that much."
And there wasn't really an opportunity
uh for that. Um I I It wasn't that I was
pigeonholed, but but it was a growing
role as a portfolio manager. So, I got
recruited over to US Trust to co-run
their large-cap growth area, which which
put me yet again in that uh position,
but felt like the platform was broader
and my inclusion on the Investment
Policy Committee, they actually
purposely wanted some top-down analysis
based on my learnings for
>> Large-cap growth means here's the
universe. It's 100 of the S&P 500.
>> we were a concentrated uh manager, only
owning No, less than 25 typically with a
with a 4 to 5-year holding period.
>> So, not a closet indexer. High active
share.
>> But I also didn't love the pigeonholing
aspect of it, where, you know, the
mantra had to be large-cap growth. I I I
liked thinking bigger picture and
thinking about different parts of the
market cycle and what works. So,
10 months after I joined US Trust,
Schwab acquired US Trust. That was 2000.
>> 2000. And you've been with Schwab for a
quarter century.
>> For It'll be 26 years
at the beginning of next year.
And
the
when I realized I did indeed want to be
adopted by the new parent company was
when Chuck Schwab himself came to New
York with our CEO at the time, Dave
Pottruck, and sat with me and said, "We
would like to create this role of chief
investment strategist," which didn't
exist at Schwab before. This was the
beginning of our entree into actually
giving advice as opposed to just being a
platform for uh for traders.
>> let let's dive into that. So, I was
going to ask you what the process was
like, but they acquired US Trust for the
assets and for the platform. You were a
bonus that came along with it, right?
>> Well, well, that's kind of you to say.
Well, I mean,
>> did offer me the the role. It did not
existed before.
>> That's a big deal.
>> said, "Yes, please."
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> And uh the rest is 26 years of history.
So, So, let let's dive into this. Um
What are the Let Let's take a look at
the numbers. On the Schwab platform as a
custodian or however Schwab is touching
401k, how many trillions of dollars are
on that platform?
>> 11.23 trillion.
>> All right. So, keep working at it.
You'll You'll get somewhere.
>> yeah. Yeah, that's about about a third
of the size of the US economy. Wow,
that's unbelievable.
Um Um and
at the time
what was Schwab in 2000?
>> Oh gosh, you know what? It was less than
that because I remember getting this
little
Plexiglas plaque?
>> Well, no, it was a it was a holder for
sticky notes. Uh-huh. And it had a star
on it and it said, you know, 1 trillion
in client assets, but that was after
the acquisition of me and So that's an
incredible growth.
Schwab really is a platform that are so
many things to so many different people.
There's an institutional business.
There's a business and full disclosure
where custody at our firm at Schwab,
most of our assets are there. So you
custody for RIAs and others.
Self-directed investors, individuals.
Who doesn't Schwab work with? It's
pretty much everybody.
>> Well, traditional institutions. So the
way we define institutional when we talk
about it and use that term somewhat
generically, we're actually referring to
the part of the business that you're
involved with. So independent wealth
management firms, RIAs, that that
platform with Schwab via the custody of
assets, but a heck of a lot more than
just that. So that's how we defined
institutional.
It of the
I'm totally using rounded numbers here,
but of the 10 of the 11 and a quarter
trillion is about evenly divided between
individual investors on our platform.
>> Self-directed.
>> Self-directed and well, not always. Now
we have we have a whole wealth
management arm that's that all feeds not
just to the individual investor side of
what we do, but to Schwab advisors. So
advisors on our platform. So that's
about evenly split and then the
remainder is
workplace services. So stock plans for
big companies and managing 401Ks. So
it's
what we
but we we're dominated by individual
investors even on the quote
institutional side because most of the
advisors on our platform manage money
for individuals. That's really That's
really interesting.
>> consider the advisor our client, but
we're we're providing a platform there
for them, you guys, to advise, for the
most part, individual investors.
>> And and I know I've told you the story
before, but when we launched our WMM in
2013,
we launched with TD.
Years later acquired by Schwab, hold
that aside. And we are we're very
data-driven. We ran a lot of analytics
and every time we didn't win a prospect,
when we would go through the list of the
reasons, the number one reason is, "Hey,
you guys don't custody with Schwab and
my money is at Schwab and call us if you
ever decide to." Absolutely true. And
finally, we all looked at each other,
"Hey, there's no reason not to open a
second custodian." And so we did and it
caused like a flood of new
um clients and new families joining us
because
But but the crazy thing is, it's like I
have never seen a financial institution
with that much brand loyalty from the
audience, from the clients because think
about it. When you talk to people about
Wells Fargo or Citibank or any large
financial traditional bank
um maybe a little bit at JP Morgan
Chase, but for the most part, no one
says, "Oh, I don't want to be with you.
You're not affiliated with" I'm making
up the stuff KeyBank. But we just heard
it so many times and it's like, "All
right, you only have to hit me in the
head so many times before I realize
there's a there's an issue here."
>> The the power of our reputation is
really extraordinary and
>> And Schwab dates back, you know, about
53 years, 54 years. So they yeah, the
the early '70s. Uh '70s
um and you know, Chuck has has written
about
uh his most recent book was called
Invested and it was essentially a a
memoir of of his time in this business.
And when you say Chuck Chuck Schwab
himself.
>> Chuck Schwab, who people used to think
was in a real guy. The guy in the
commercials is him.
And he's still up and about. You were
telling me he was he's just won a golf
tournament at 88. Uh last year he won
the Nantucket Golf Club member member at
87 and he almost won it again this year
at at 88. So regularly shoots below
his age. Still a very active chair of
the board. And
uh but uh
the the the culture that he has imbued
in in Schwab is really second to none.
And you know, our our sort of corporate,
for for lack of a better word, tagline
is through clients' eyes.
And he has fostered this live it and
breathe everything you do has to be from
the perspective of of clients. So you're
really the perfect person to ask a
question and I'll ask it specifically
about Schwab, but it's obviously true
about the entire industry.
You've witnessed a shift from a lot of
self-directed
investors
over to the advisor-driven side. What
has that process been like at Schwab?
Um so it's not just the
trillions of dollars. Right. Not just
the advisor side, but
investors at Schwab who who want
guidance, who want advice, whether it's
through advisors on our platform or
directly with us on our private client
side of the the business. And it's just
the natural evolution of Schwab moving
decades ago from a platform for the
self-directed
to
a behemoth that actually provides that
guidance and advice now, both directly
through certain channels and indirectly
through the advisor channel. So true or
false? And I love this question
because so many people doubt it. We are
today in a golden age for investing for
individuals. How do you how do you
answer that?
Can I say yes? Yeah, true. Just yes. No,
I didn't say true, I said yes.
>> Yes. Golden age of investing for you.
>> think it's both true and false depending
on how you define Okay, explain.
>> of investing. Um
I I think we are, as it relates to
individual investors that understand
that discipline
um is such an important part of the
process that they don't think of get in,
get out as investing strategies. I I
fully agree that those are really
gambling on moments in time. Mhm. You
wrote about it brilliantly in in your
book, the emotional side. And so I think
it's true in the sense that
um a lot of those more
seasoned investors that take that
disciplined approach are are more
equipped now
and have more access to
information and guidance and when used
in the right way, it's been to the great
benefit of their success. But then you
have um retail traders, which I'm not
here to say that they're, you know, the
ultimate contrarian indicator, but I
think the perspective there is one of
very short time horizons. Mhm. Um the,
you know, buy the dip mentality, which,
you know, to their credit works in a
bull market, very painful in a bear
market.
>> of the, you know, younger retail trader
that was born out of the pandemic era
uh it's not that they have blinders on
to the long term or the big picture, but
they've been they've been, I guess so
far anyway, to your point, properly
schooled by virtue of buy the dip has
worked. But I'm I'm starting to
get some anecdotal evidence that there
I'm not sure that there is a full
understanding of what a market cycle
actually looks like and that there is
downside.
So I think there there's more
bifurcation
and there's a wider spread in terms of
of how investors are approaching the
market or how traders are approaching
the market and they they they're not in
conflict, but they're kind of at
different ends of the spectrum from a
what works, what doesn't work, what are
the benefits of taking a long-term
approach, having those disciplines as
opposed to just, you know,
FOMO, I'm in
and, you know, buy every dip. Think
about everybody who was born in the
1990s,
by the time they come out of college
post-financial crisis, they've pretty
much only known Right. one of the
greatest rampaging bull markets in
history.
>> was brutal from an economic and market
perspective, but for it was 5 weeks in
the case of the market.
>> Right. Mid-February to March.
>> of the recession. So Although people
still didn't believe it throughout that
summer as as from the March 2020 lows
till the end of the year, I think the
S&P 500 was up 69% and people fought it
the whole way because their personal
experience didn't jive with what they
were seeing
>> Exactly.
>> in equities, which which is fascinating.
So Schwab created the market strategist
role for you.
What does it mean being a market
strategist? How does that differ from
either a PM on the equity side or an
economist more broadly? Well, it it
certainly differentiated from a PM in
that I am not I'm not picking stocks.
I'm not a trader. I don't analyze
individual stocks. So it's it's purely
top-down. Uh it's
>> Top-down meaning markets, economy.
>> Yes. Do you look at uh sectors? Do you
look at fixed income? What what comes
into it?
>> we have um my my colleague and co-host
on our On Investing Podcast is Kathy
Jones. So she's my counterpart on the
fixed income side. She's our chief fixed
income strategist. And I I say often, it
sounds like it's uh jokingly, but it's
actually quite serious that I was
thrilled when we brought Kathy on cuz
then I was able to stop pretending like
I was a deep dive expert on the fixed
income side of things. My my background
is on the equity side of things. But
what's unique, I think, about this role
as it is as it has existed in the
almost 26 years that that I've been at
Schwab and have been in this role is it
it blends the market analysis with the
economic analysis. So we don't have
these distinct roles of chief economist
and chief investment strategist. And
that was always pleasing to me because I
I'm
I I'm not sure I would
either be as effective or enjoy what I
do as much if I had to have my market
views beholden to uh economic views that
were completely distinct. I think having
that that overlap in analysis has been
uh a benefit. I also, because our
investor base are almost all individual
investors, that's a very different
audience that if you're one of the big
investment banking research wirehouse
firms, where a good chunk of your client
base that is uh that is a consumer of
strategist work
uh being institutions, I think it's a
very different animal in terms of what
is valuable, what makes sense, and maybe
importantly, again, in keeping with your
book, you know, thinking about not just
what matters, but what doesn't matter,
what shouldn't matter. And I I remember
one of the first things that that Chuck
talked to me about 25 years ago
was him not being a believer in the
whole year-end price target. Mhm. Um
which was music to my ears because I
think particularly for individual
investors, there's really not that much
practical value to that. It's sort of
one point in time. Every strategist has
to adjust those uh forecasts constantly.
It doesn't tell you about how to manage
through market cycles. It's just one end
point to one end point. And so that is
certainly one of the differentiators as
well, in addition to having that blended
market analysis and economic analysis
role,
not sort of falling into the trap of the
way strategists get pitted against one
another. I love that you call it a trap
because it's easy to see what happens
when people make a forecast like that,
and then they tend to marry it
regardless of what data comes along.
Um I think it was Ned Davis's book was
called Being Right or Making Money.
>> Mhm. And he explained how frequently
people would just get so hung up on
admitting error that they would stay
>> That's right. in the wrong position, the
wrong posture, the wrong holdings,
rather than admit they were wrong and
adjust to whatever the data is.
>> trend, you know, one of
Marty Zweig was well known for quite a
quite a bit, but you know, he coined the
term don't fight the Fed. But he also
was known for saying the trend is your
friend.
And so staying in gear requires constant
thinking and rethinking. In fact, I
always use this as an example of the
perils of the year-end price target. If
a strategist at the beginning of 1987
basically said the market's going to
close pretty flat relative to where it
ended 1986.
By the end of the year, they were right
from a point to point.
>> However, To suggest that the market was
just boring and flat all year, uh There
was that little hiccup in October.
>> little hiccup.
Uh that was September 19th.
>> September. No, October 19th. October
19th. But there were, you know, there
were warning signs. And here, can I tell
you another funny
uh early story? So
I started in uh the summer of '86. Um
and as And we were
Marty's side of the business, which was
mutual funds, which was the Zweig-Dimena
hedge fund, which is still ongoing
under the leadership of Joe Dimena.
Uh we would be generically thought of as
market timers. We were tactical asset
allocators on the Avatar institutional
side, much more traditional market
timing on the Zweig side, particularly
the hedge fund. And
coming into '87, we were uh over the
cross of strategies, cross strategies,
were essentially fully invested. But
started to get much more pessimistic
about the market in August. You had a
huge run-up prior to October.
What was that, like 30, 40%? Some crazy
number.
>> 40. Really?
>> And so we started to adjust allocations
down, more extreme on the hedge fund
side, where Marty went I I think to
essentially a net short uh position. And
famously discussed on Rukeyser.
The Friday night before the crash,
he was on. You can YouTube it now.
>> Yep. Yep.
>> And uh
Lou asked him
or or made a comment. He said, "Marty,
you seem
uh particularly
uh bearish." And And Marty was seen as
this perma bear. Oh, really?
>> But he wasn't He was just He always was
a nervous He always had a little bit of
that that angst and that humbleness. So
he would at times be nervous when his
view on the market was very bullish. Um
But uh so then Lou concluded the
question with, "Do you think we have a
bear market ahead of us?" And uh Marty
said, "Well, um
no, I think it's more likely to be a
crash."
And I
>> That was Friday night.
>> Pretty much it could happen any day. And
then he not only said that, but then he
laid out, "And I think it could be
really ugly, but then I think we we
immediately rally off the low, but then
we probably retest the low before we
take off again." So here I am, less than
a year
in the business.
We had gone from being almost fully
invested in equities down to, I don't
know, 20 or 25% invested in equities
right into right before the crash. So
the little voice in my head is thinking,
"What's the big deal? Why is everybody
freaking out? You just figure out before
the crash that there's going to be a
crash, you move money out, and
>> Right.
>> and then you take advantage of cheaper
price, you put it back in. Easy peasy."
>> Little did I know And and to just
reflect how accurate Zweig was, Monday
down 22%, a rally that failed the next
day. You didn't quite get back down to
the same lows.
>> but but it was pretty ugly again.
>> 22% in a day is kind of excessive.
>> 23%. 20 22.8, if I if Okay. All right,
I'm rounding. Okay, yeah.
>> Um
And um and double-check those numbers. I
could be wrong. But, you know, portfolio
insurance was a big part of that,
probably made what was a 10% correction
more than double. So maybe that's why
you didn't retest, and then it was off
to the races, back to break even for the
year.
>> Right. And and we had started buying
after the after the crash. So ended the
year with just off-the-charts
performance. And again, you know, naive
young me is thinking, "I don't know why
everybody's freaking out so much."
>> are these people talking about how
difficult this is? So the obvious
question, how significant was Marty to
shaping your framework for understanding
markets?
>> uh extraordinarily impactful because I I
think The thing that resonated with me
the most, and you wrote about it in your
book, and it's the likes of the Sir John
Templeton quote about bull
markets are born of pessimism, they grow
on skepticism, mature on optimism, die
on euphoria. I think that's such a
brilliant way to describe a market
cycle, in part because the only Exactly.
>> in there have to do with emotions.
There's nothing in that line about
market cycles that has anything to do
with what we all obsess about on a
day-to-day basis, monetary policy,
fiscal policy, what the next inflation
report is going to be, even earnings and
and valuation. And Marty understood
that, too. And so much of the work that
he did was steeped in that sentiment
analysis.
>> I I love that you brought that up
because I I So I took the technical
analysis training course with Ralph
Acampora, and I don't really think of
myself as a technician, but I certainly
wouldn't buy anything without looking at
a chart.
>> it has to be a component.
>> don't I don't need to see an analyst
research report, but I have to at least
get a sense of is the trend up, is the
trend down, has this been going sideways
for years?
And um the best technicians I know
have always brought in behavioral
economics and sentiment before we called
it behavioral finance. And Marty
certainly was one of those people.
>> And uh so
my my
maybe sort of added focus on the
emotional side, the sentiment side of
the market, very much was born out of my
uh time working for for Marty. And I I
still think it's extraordinarily
important. Um and and one of the the
messages we always impart to our
investors is
ideally, you don't figure out the hard
way whether there's a wider or narrow
gap between your financial risk
tolerance and your emotional risk
tolerance cuz those two at times can be
completely different. And I always
describe financial risk tolerance as
kind of what's on the proverbial paper.
Right. What can you afford?
>> horizon, what you need income? What is
this money for? Is it for retirement?
Diversification, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah. But if you are going to, you know,
panic and sell everything
the first bear market level declines in
your portfolio,
you're maybe not as risk tolerant
investor as you you thought. And it's
it's just the vast majority of mistakes
that we see, extreme mistakes, purely
driven by emotion. You know, there's a
line I remember from when I was on a
trading desk that I didn't really
understand then, but it sums up what you
that gap between your financial risk
tolerance and your emotional risk
tolerance, which is figure out who you
are because Wall Street is an expensive
place to learn. Exactly.
>> Right? You don't know who you are, you
don't know what your emotional pain
allowance is. You don't want to panic
out. The word capitulation technically
means surrender. So you go to a March
09, that capitulation meant people just
couldn't take the pain anymore. Make it
stop. Just get me out of everything and
that's how bottoms are
>> Can I share the March 09? Oh, we were
talking about
>> We were talking about earlier, but we
didn't have microphones in front of us.
So
it was Let's go back to March 6th of
2009. So
I lived in Darien, Connecticut for 22
years. We raised our kids in Darien.
And it's one of the the hotbeds of Wall
Street. In fact
>> Bedroom community, short commute to the
city.
>> to the city. Um
our town made the cover of Business Week
in 2008, the latter part of 2008, as the
town most impacted by the financial
crisis in the country. And they did it
based on the percentage of the working
population that worked either on Wall
Street in some capacity or in real
estate.
And so it was I was surrounded by Wall
Street people. Not a lot of Wall Street
women. Mhm.
>> Um it was also a town where most of the
the women who were raising kids were
were stay-at-home.
So I was always steeped in conversation
about the markets. And in the role that
I had, I would always get peppered with
questions. So my husband and I are at a
dinner party in Darien. It's toward the
end. Dinner and dessert had served.
Maybe about a quarter of the people had
left, a smaller crowd just sitting
around chatting. And the host of the
party, who was at that time a
30-plus-year
veteran of Wall Street, said Uh Lizanne,
I must say I I don't envy you right now.
And he
was a bit dramatic and he kind of paused
for effect. And I said, "Oh,
what do you mean?"
And he said, "Well, I really think that
there's no chance that the stock market
ever gets to another high. I think
there's a decent chance that retail
investors will never buy again. Wait,
which never? Never? Just done?
>> me question the the viability of a
company like Schwab.
And so I don't even remember what I
said. I I think I did some generic
version, "Well, I beg to differ." But I
I didn't I was also ready to leave. You
know, I I I I I like a 9:00 handle on my
bedtime. So if it's 11:30, I'm like,
"Okay, chop, chop." So I I just I I
wanted to end the night. We get in the
car.
Unprompted.
I and I haven't had to embellish the
story at all.
Before my husband puts the key in the
car, he looked to me. He said, "Did you
hear it?"
And I said, "The bell ringing?"
>> Yep.
>> "I knew you were thinking that." So I
called my friend the next morning and I
said, "I am working on a report." And
all of my research reports, written
research reports, I use rock song
titles. I'm a rock chick from way back.
So I said, "I am working on a report
that I want to title Here Comes the Sun.
Can I share the anecdote?" No name, just
no name.
>> I said, "I'm not going to mention name."
He said, "Sure. I think you're going to
regret it." Every time I see him, he
does like the fist to the forehead like,
"Oh my gosh." And that was
um when the last person is standing has
gone down. That is And I think that's
What's interesting about sentiment is we
know sentiment at extremes serves as a
contrarian indicator. Right. Most of the
time you could pretty much ignore that
middle range.
>> Without anything resembling precise
timing. That said, as we all learned in
the late 1990s, extremely optimistic
sentiment can last for a really long
time.
>> Uh you know, Greenspan made his
irrational exuberance comment in '96.
>> December '96.
>> until, you know, three-plus years later
that the market topped out.
>> March 2000, almost four years. That
said, when sentiment gets to such an
extreme of despair, it's not a precise
contrarian timing, but there's a
narrower window. Pay attention. Yes. Pay
more attention to extremes of despair
than you do extremes of enthusiasm
because the latter can last a long time.
>> Tops are a process, bottoms are a
moment.
>> Absolutely. And you know, there are all
these old trader cliches and stuff, but
they become cliches for a reason. And
you know,
we all experience the world in a very
narrow window of There's 8 billion
people on the planet. Our experiences
are maybe 10th of a percent of what the
rest of the world is experiencing. And
so we tend to extrapolate out to the
rest of the world, but very often what's
happening in the markets is not a
reflecting your personal experience. But
after you've lived through enough
cycles, you start to be able to hear
those sort of things. I had that was a
pure death of equities Business Week
call. cover from the late '70s and a
year or two later, that was it. It was
the next 1,000% rally.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Amazing story. I have
one other anecdote that's an interesting
one to think about how emotions come
into play. Uh was out in Silicon Valley
area
maybe about a year ago, a little less
than a year ago, and heard from a client
uh that he had finally given in to his
financial consultant's suggestion that
he trimmed just back about 10% of his
Nvidia holdings. He was an ex-employee,
had a lot. Just, you know,
diversification.
>> Right. We're going to leave some money
on the table in order to reduce your
drawdowns and volatility.
>> ended up splitting the difference. He
didn't want to trim any. He trimmed 5%
and then the stock went up by
20-some-odd percent in the short term.
And he he was mad at the financial
consultant that the stock had gone up.
And to his our financial consultant's
credit said, "Would you really be
happier if the 95% you still own went
down 20%?" Listen, at the beginning of
this year, Nvidia lost a third of its
value.
>> The he was almost more and he to his
credit he said, "You know what? That's
the way I should think about it." Was
more concerned about the top tick, the
bottom tick. I trimmed it. Wasn't I
brilliant because then the stock went
down 20%? So it it Our emotions play
tricks on us in a lot of different
directions.
>> You you brought up my book. I try not to
talk about it on the show, but
>> Um the regret minimization chapter is
all about your role as an individual
investor is not to outperform the market
or top tick or bottom tick stocks. It's,
"Hey, how can you avoid making decisions
that you're going to say 10 years later,
what an idiot I was?" Just Just as
Charlie Munger said, "What can you do to
be less stupid?" And if, you know, we
see these portfolios that started out as
a million or 2 million dollars, but
through
either smarts or good luck or some
combination, they had a big slug of
Nvidia 10 years ago. And now they have a
$20 portfolio, 18 million of which is
Nvidia. Hey, do you really want to ride
this up and down? You've won. Think
Think about what $20 in long-term
investing does for you. Do you really
want to ride this down when it takes one
of its regular drawdowns? And what I
want to say it gave up about a trillion
dollars in market cap this year before
recovering. Um But can I can I say
something else? Not I'm not an analyst,
I don't cover Nvidia. But the whole
focus, the uber focus on the Magnificent
Seven, let's just use that as an example
of a cohort. Mhm. So the
we're dealing with cap-weighted indexes
in the case of the S&P and the and the
Nasdaq. And I think one of the messages
we impart to individual investors is
don't feel like you have to have the
same concentration as what's embedded in
these cap-weighted indexes. That's an
institutional problem. If you're
benchmarked against the S&P on a
quarterly basis, you are at the mercy of
the construction of that index. But as
an example of how I I describe this,
Nvidia is the best performing stock
within the Mag Seven year-to-date. But
it's the 47th best performing stock in
the S&P 500.
Wow.
>> It's the number one contributor to S&P
gains by virtue of the multiplier of the
cap size.
So there's 46 stocks in the S&P
that about that are outperforming Nvidia
this year. Nvidia is I think ranked
number 630-something in the Nasdaq. Mhm.
Meaning there's 630-some-odd stocks
within the Nasdaq that are outperforming
the best performing Mag Seven. So it's
the concentrate it's the contribution
that sometimes gets conflated with the
performance. I have a buddy who's a
technician who looks at a ratio of the
market cap S&P versus the equal weight
S&P. And what we've been seeing this
year is the equal weight um
I'm trying to remember where we are now.
I haven't looked at it recently. But
when it's going up, it's telling you the
big caps are faltering. And when the
ratio is going down, it's telling you
the big caps are doing well. Unless I'm
I'm doing that backwards. It depends on
which one is the numerator, which one is
the denominator. But clearly the
outsized weight market cap-wise is I
don't I haven't looked at it this
morning. Is Nvidia number one or two
behind Microsoft or Apple?
>> one right now, but it's been
you know, Meta and Alphabet have
actually been kind of battling. But and
then also Microsoft. Those are the four
of the Mag 7 that are outperforming the
S&P year-to-date. The other three are
underperforming. And in fact, a few days
ago, cuz I track this on a daily basis,
a few days ago
Apple was down I think 7% year-to-date.
That would have is its worst
year-to-date performance. And it was the
503rd
ranked contributor to the S&P. So the
multiplier of cap size works in the
other direction if you're an
underperformer as well. A lot of people
say, "Well, what do you mean 503? The
S&P has 500 stocks."
>> B shares. Google and Berkshire. You have
a few big companies like that.
>> um That's a great trivia question. How
many company How many stocks are in the
>> are in the S&P 500? And there's also not
2,000 in the Russell 2000.
>> Or the Wilshire 5000. It's like 3400.
>> there yeah, the Wilshire 5000 used to be
about 8,000 stocks.
Um and now there's just fewer stocks
that are publicly traded.
>> So I went back and looked at my notes.
The last time we had a conversation like
this was spring of 2024. It was 6 months
before the election. Um I don't think
the election surprised many people. It
sort of felt like that was inevitable.
Maybe that's a little bit of hindsight
bias.
Um
how has this year played out since
January 20th relative to expectations?
Well, you know, let's let's focus
on not so much the beginning of the
year, but
the setup going into April 2nd. I think
that was a pivotal point because
>> we knew tariffs were coming.
Um but I think there was complacency as
to what the announcement would be on
April 2nd. An assumption that okay, 10%
across-the-board tariffs. It's kind of
built into expectations.
>> You call it complacency. I I call it a
failure of imagination. Cuz afterwards
it's
>> imagine the Cheesecake Factory menu
being held up and reciprocal tariffs of
a massive uh size. Right. Yeah. Right.
Because you think about it, he talked
about tariffs. He I called himself
Tariff Man. It's the most beautiful word
in the dictionary. None of us imagined
that he would just
overturn the order.
>> reciprocity wasn't about tariffs that
other countries uh
had uh had as part of their policy, but
reciprocity relative to trade deficits.
And the confusion that that brought
about when you think about there are
many countries, particularly smaller
Vietnam is the classic example.
>> also, you know, the Madagascar and
Bangladesh and we're never going to have
a trade surplus. They can't afford to
buy what they're teeny. And in the case
of, you know, a a place like Madagascar,
they produce most of the vanilla in the
world.
>> Uh-huh. Uh that gives them literally and
figuratively an industry. And they can't
afford to buy what we export, which is
much more value add. So I think that was
a big surprise factor.
Um A math It's effectively a conceptual
math error. Yeah, and of course, running
trade deficits, the other side of that
is a capital account surplus. So we
export dollars into the rest of the the
world, and those dollars have to be put
to work, and they get put in treasuries
and equities.
>> So I think that became a a significant
I also have been really shocked, Barry,
at how the general public doesn't
understand
literally who pays the tariffs. It's a
VAT tax. It's a value added tax on
consumption.
>> time I decided I was speaking to an
audience
uh in Naples, Florida in the spring that
were
well-to-do audience, so assuming they
have some investment expertise, but but
we're not we're not deep in the
import-export business. And I decided,
let me just lay out the actual
definition of tariffs. I said,
"Notwithstanding the short-handed
headlines of tariffs on China, tariffs
on Mexico, fill in the blank. Tariffs
are paid by the US company importing the
goods. They're not paid by the targeted
country. Mhm. It is not the case that,
as I've heard from friends who didn't
understand how this work, that in order
for China to export goods into the
United States, China has to pay a tariff
to the United States. Barry, do you know
how many people came up to me after that
event and said, "I had no idea."
And that's what's a little frustrating
because there's still that shorthand.
And at times when there are comments
made by the administration that, you
know, China, if again, fill in the blank
of the country, paying us more in
tariffs, it's the US company. It's a tax
on US companies. Now, a valid debate
is who ultimately bears the cost.
And is it the exporters that will lower
their price to offset the tariff that
the US company has to pay? Very little
indication that that is happening. And
then of course, it's do companies eat it
in their profit margins or do they pass
it on
to the consumers?
>> either way, either companies are going
to have lower profits, which means the
stock market could support a lower PE
multiple, or there's only so many
dollars. It's finite. If if there So
what we saw we saw this is taking place
in three steps.
Uh in anticipation of the tariffs going
into effect, and especially with the
90-day pause on April
>> Well, that was the thing that happened
in between.
>> of excess import inventory builds.
>> week from April 2nd to the intraday low
on April 9th.
>> Mhm. There was sort of a complete
about-face. So what none of us can do is
try to gauge what the next social media
post is going to be. There's been
so many fits and starts from a tariff
perspective, whether it's uh delays,
tariffs coming down, exceptions.
This has been a an elongated process. It
was certainly wasn't a moment in time
kind of thing. But what we can analyze,
especially as a a strategist, are the
setups. So we already talked about the
setup going into April 2nd. Well, the
setup
shifted very quickly. So you went from
complacent sentiment to despairing
sentiment.
>> You had a VIX in the low teens that
spiked up to 30. And I want on the 8th,
I wanted to buy, and I'm like, "I have
no idea what the hell the next tweet is
going to be. Can I really put money in
my personal account, put money on at
risk that could be destroyed by a
tweet?"
>> then you had the market technically
oversold, breadth had fully washed out.
So then you get what was really just
incrementally positive news intraday on
April 9th.
>> But then you had the power of the retail
trader, and that cohort has become
unbelievably power powerful,
representing somewhere in the 20 to 25%
of daily trading volume. And that buy
the dip mentality was such a fuel for
the market. What concerns me a little
bit now is if you I I track a lot of the
baskets that track like micro baskets of
of stocks. Goldman has a lot of them.
UBS has the meme stock basket. You go
back to that intraday low on April 9th,
and it's baskets like the memes,
non-profitable tech, heavily shorted
stocks. That is the perfect example of
retail traders kind of powering this
market higher. And in the heavily
shorted piece of that, it's also
suggestive maybe of retail traders
with a little bit of the stick it to the
man, which which drove the initial meme
stock craze back in 2021.
>> GameStop thing.
>> Yeah. And it's it's alive and well
again. It It actually has forced
institutions in some cases to cover
shorts, which has added to the the fuel.
Now I think as we think about the setup,
we're arguably back in a similar
pre-April 2nd, a bit of complacency and
um
uh which maybe means some vulnerability
to the extent you get some sort of
negative catalyst.
>> So that's where I wanted to go since
we're talking about the current
environment. It felt like a lot of savvy
companies
loaded up on inventory in that 90-day
pause. And
right, exactly.
>> And then they were capable until that
ran down
of not really being affected by tariffs.
And then even as the tariffs started to
bite, they see it seemed like they were
eating the increase and not passing it
along. But that can only go on for so
long. It feels like the next phase is
consumers are going to pay it up.
>> point, Barry, there there wasn't much of
that eating it at the early stages
because of that inventory build
>> Mhm.
by front-running the tariffs and
building inventories at a low cost
basis,
providing some time flexibility around
when to make the decision of eating it
in the profit margins or passing it on
to the consumers.
We're now starting to see attempts to
pass on to the consumer. But the maybe
the more interesting thing to consider
right now is so much focus on
goods that are impacted by tariffs.
What's the rate of inflation in those
goods? Trying to gauge the tariff impact
on the inflation statistics. But what
we're also starting to see is demand
destruction Mhm. and switching on the
part of consumers. So I think we have to
analyze the impact of tariffs in a
parallel fashion, not just gauging what
the inflation impact is. You can do that
by separating out goods and services
within the goods categories of an
inflation metric like CPI. Look at those
that are directly impacted by tariffs,
non-impacted by tariffs. But there's the
demand destruction side of things. So we
track the weekly consumer spending data.
And if you separate that into
tariff-impacted categories, that's where
you're seeing a compression in that
spending.
>> So So to be fair, when you look at the
US is a 30 31 trillion dollar economy.
When you look at the value of imported
And by the way, that economy is much
more services than goods oriented. And
then you look at the percentage of goods
that are imported,
it's a trillion or two trillion out of I
I know it sounds crazy to say, "Yeah,
what's a trillion?" But it's a trillion
out of 30 plus trillion dollars. So, the
worst-case scenario is it takes a
quarter or a half a point out of GDP,
but probably doesn't tip us into a
recession. Is that a a fair way to
describe it?
>> Yeah, in and of itself it probably
doesn't, but there's, you know, the
feedback loop that happens if company
right labor. Where if companies, because
they don't have that ability to pass
most of it on to consumers, in part
because of the demand destruction that
I'm talking about, then there's that
eating in profit margins. And then does
that feed into the labor market side of
things? I think that's why the Fed did
what it did. The risk
>> the risk management, the insurance cut
to try to stem any weakness in the labor
market.
>> So, let's talk about those cross
currents, since you do both markets and
the economy. We've had a softening labor
market, at least the past few months,
and then the whole I I don't know if
that re
statement is
precise, but it certainly makes it clear
we were too optimistic about the labor
market over the past four quarters.
Inflation
sort of residual sticky inflation that
hasn't come down to the Fed's 2%
We can argue about whether that really
should be a 3% target, but hold that
aside. Um yet at the same time, we sort
see corporate profits continue to grow
and markets making new all-time highs,
which that combination uh expanding
profits, all-time price highs tends to
be bullish historically. How do you
navigate all of these positives and
negatives?
>> Well,
here's one way to to think about the
connectivity between the market and the
economy. I I think it's very circular
right now, or maybe chicken and egg. And
what does make me hearken back to the
late 1990s as a bit of a comp to the
current environment is not so much is it
a bubble. There's more there there in
the A lot of revenue, a lot of profit.
>> There's actual denominator in the
valuation equation, which is not the
case, right? Not clicks and eyeballs.
Um not every company just adding dot
com, you know, to the end of their uh
name, but I the wealth effect. And it's
chicken and egg. And what makes me think
back to the late 1990s is in that 99
blowoff into the peak in 2000,
whether it was valuation metrics like
the Buffett model, which looks at total
market cap of all US stocks as a share
of total GDP. Which is at all-time highs
now.
>> Which and way higher than it was back at
the peak in '99 or 2000 at the time.
Households' exposure to equities as a
share of their financial assets well at
an all-time high, significantly higher.
So, if we remember when the market
topped out in March of 2000, and then we
started what was a 2 and 1/2 year bear
market, we ended up getting a recession
declared in 2001. It was a very mild
recession. It was one of the proof
points, which for what I always say
drives me crazy that people think of
recession as traditionally or
classically defined as two quarters in a
row of GDP. That's never been the
definition of recession.
>> That's a pet peeve of mine as well. It
drives me crazy. And in fact, '01, with
the benefit of revisions, wasn't two
quarters in a row of negative GDP.
>> Same Same thing in 2022 people were
talking about it. The revision
>> The revision took out that one quarter.
>> when you have a spike in inflation, it's
not that the economy is contracting,
it's that we back out price increases.
The economy is so hot that inflation
makes it look negative. It's not It's
not a contraction, it's just a price
problem.
>> But that '01 recession was actually very
mild. Began in March, I think, and ended
in October.
>> Short, it was mild. There were There was
not really a financial system crisis. It
wasn't a credit crunch.
I think it was the weakness in the stock
market cause the economy to contract
because of the wealth effect at the
time. I'm going to I'm going to
take it just a step further. I have
vivid recollections of speaking to
people, speaking to clients or other
people's clients in '96, '97, '98, '99
who had been in the market for 15, 20
years. Hey, we want to trade up to a
nicer house. Hey, we want to buy a beach
house, a lake house, a vacation
property. And the person said, "I'm I'm
not sure if the market's going to go
higher from here, but I want to pull
half a million out of my account and buy
real estate." It's like, "Hey, you're
going to have that house for the next
25, 30 years. Even if the market keeps
going higher, who cares? You're sitting
on such profits, why not?" Um and so I
kind of got a sense that um it wasn't so
much the wealth effect as people had
already done the big buys before the
market crashed, which tends to freeze
people in place.
>> Yeah. Um so I saw a lot of rotation out
of equities just because people were
sitting on Look, from '82 to 2000, the
Dow gained 1,000%.
People were taking a little
uh of the house money off the table and
letting the less the rest ride, and then
the dot com implosion, I want to say 82,
83% peak to trough on on Nasdaq, on the
Qs.
>> Uh yeah. Um 57% on the S&P, you know,
80%
>> up the best because it was least exposed
back then. That was before Microsoft and
Intel went into the Dow.
Right. That's right.
>> So,
uh the
>> So, I just think we And again, it's a
bit circular in that, you know, if and
when we get another bear market, we
essentially had one this year. Mhm. Um
just missed it on the S&P at the index
level.
>> But the Here's Here's another set of
statistics.
Um the average max the average member
maximum drawdown for the S&P year to
date is 24%. The average member has had
a bear market. The average member within
the Nasdaq's maximum drawdown is 47%.
Wow.
>> Now, you want
>> Cap weighted? Uh Well, the average
member, just each individual member.
>> So, not cap weighted.
>> No, cuz it's individual members.
Um you just track what each member
maximum drawdown was at any point, and
then take an average of that. But here's
the maybe more interesting one. In an
environment since the April 9th intraday
low, we haven't had much of any kind of
pullback in either the S&P or the
Nasdaq. But just since that low, in an
environment where the S&P hasn't even
had a 2% pullback, the average member
within the S&P since the closing low on
April 8th has had a 14% maximum
drawdown. Mhm. And within the Nasdaq has
had a 32% maximum drawdown. So, there's
a lot of rotation and churn under the
surface, which you don't pick up if
you're only focused on
the index level,
which has that cap bias to it. Huh.
That's amazing. Um so, last question
before I get to my favorites.
Uh we we're talking about a lot of
things that are in the headlines. What
do you think investors are not thinking
about or talking about, but perhaps
should be? What topics, assets, data
points You know, there was one I thought
about
>> There was one I thought about this
morning, and it's not so much what
people aren't talking about. So, I'm
going to answer in a different way. It's
what I hear a lot of people talking
about that isn't quite
the right way to think about it. And
that is the cash on the sidelines
argument.
So, it's why I hated that, and I'm not a
fan either. But it often the specificity
around that has to do with the amount of
money in money market funds.
>> 7.something trillion.
>> trillion and change. And that that is
sitting there
as either, if not imminent, but ample
fuel that if that money decides to
repatriate from money markets into the
equity market, boy, we go off to the
races.
>> mostly come from bonds?
You're getting such low yield on bonds.
So, my
>> a lot of it's sticky. My Schwab money
market account last summer, so we bought
a house
beach property in February. Last summer
I was getting like 5.3, 5.2 in in the
Schwab. What is it? Snocks? Snacks? I
don't even remember the symbol. I'm
like, "Why do I need to mess around with
10 or 20 year bonds when I'm getting
much better But here's the other angle
to that.
Um if you think of 7 trillion dollars as
some massive fuel for the market, you
need to look at it as a ratio relative
to the total Right.
>> market capitalization.
It's gone up less than the stock market
has.
>> only 12%. The all-time low in that in
the history that we have for that data
is 11%. Put that in context.
In '08 and '09, when money was
flying into money markets because it was
fleeing the equity market,
at the peak, money market assets
relative to the size of the stock market
was more than 60%. Huh. That's huge.
>> at about 12%. So, the math is such that
even if
all 7 trillion dollars was to leave en
masse and go into the equity market
as a fuel at 12% of total market cap
versus, say, you know, 63% of total
market cap in '09, that's a very
different. Not to mention, back to our
initial point, I think a lot of that
money is sticky. That was money that was
forced out the risk spectrum into other
categories within the fixed income
market in order to pick up yield when
there was none to be had. So, I I don't
think we should consider that some
sidelines cash that is just itching to
find its way back into the riskier asset
classes. Someone once debunked the cash
on the sideline argument and it might
have even been Marty Zweig in winning on
Wall Street by explaining it this way.
Hey, I'm going to buy a million dollars
worth of stock. It means I have a
million dollars worth of cash but no
stock. I buy a million of the SPY. Now I
have the SPY and and they have a million
on of cash.
>> buyer there's a seller. There's no cash
on the sideline. It just changes hands.
It's the same dollar amount. So it's
been one of those things that has
persisted forever.
>> also the more buyers than sellers.
No, no, no, no.
That you you are tagging all my favorite
pet peeves.
>> more enthusiasm on the buy side versus
the enthusiasm but there's no more
buyers than sellers or vice versa. For
every buyer there's a seller.
>> trader used to say there are more buyers
than sellers at this level and now you
go up to the nice price next price level
where there are a matching number of
buyers and sellers and the price
stabilizes. If a price is going up okay,
at that particular
at 2755,
there may be more buyers than stock for
sale but at 2775 then you you've that's
how you end up with price stability. So
yeah, more buyers than sellers. No, no,
there an equal amount of buyers and
sellers. That's how
the other line I love has been trade
takes place where there's a disagreement
about value but an agreement on price.
And that seems to really
explain that. So I only have you for a
limited amount of time. Let's let's
speed through our favorite questions
starting with tell us about your mentors
who help help shape your career. I'm
pretty sure I know that you Shocker,
Marty Zweig. Yeah. Chuck Schwab. Okay.
And in the world
>> not not too shabby mentors, right?
>> mentors, yeah. Boy, was I lucky.
And I will say in the world of media,
another name we've already touched on,
Louis Rukeyser. One of the best pieces
of advice he gave me was was when I was
on the show for the first time as a
guest.
>> Mhm. And he was saying hello to me for
the first time, welcome me onto the
show. This was off camera and he asked
me whether my parents were still alive
and whether they were finance people and
I said nope, far from it. He said okay,
when you come out here and do the
interview with me, uh
get them to understand what you're
talking about.
>> Mhm. And that was such a
a moment of okay, get people to
understand what you're talking about.
>> funny you say that.
>> My mom was a real estate agent, my wife
is an art teacher and it's always make
them understand it. Don't don't clutter
it up with jargon. Make it
understandable. It's interesting that it
was uh
it was Rukeyser who said that. Let's
talk about books. I mentioned Zweig's
Winning on Wall Street. What are some of
your favorites? What are you reading
right now?
>> So my favorite So I'm not reading a book
right now. I I must say I don't have a
lot of time. I read constantly. I drink
from a firehose of information but it
tends to be
you know, reports and
all that.
>> dive Fed research and but my favorite
book of all time and it is market
related is Reminiscences of a Stock
Operator. Absolute favorite. I I tell
young people to buy it all the time. It
still resonates
today and um You substitute AI for
railroads and telegraphs and it's the
same
>> Exactly. It's the same story.
>> same it's the same story but I am a big
podcast listener. Uh-huh. Um so that's
the longer form way including Masters in
Business that I absorb information
beyond the traditional drivers that come
into my inbox literally It's easy when
you're traveling if you're on a plane or
a car. I just find it so easy. All
right, so you told us what your what
What other podcasts are you listening
to? What are you watching on
I I listen to Masters in Business. Um I
love Grant Williams series of podcasts.
I love them because they're long form
and they're big picture and top down.
My my favorite non-investing podcast is
SmartLess. I just love those guys.
>> are great.
>> They're great. They're They're so fun.
>> I'm going to tell you
I listened I've had Michael Lewis on the
podcast a dozen times.
>> have met and have interviewed Michael
Lewis on stage at Schwab's Impact
Conference.
>> And the story he told and I'm not even
going to mention it. The story he told
on SmartLess about a family tragedy was
just
>> It was unbelievable and what what his
friend said to him or his therapist said
to him
the reason why you're so exhausted after
this life's tragedy is in your mind
you're rewriting the future
without without her. Right. It's crazy.
>> And that was such a
a moment of wow. But yeah, that was one
of the most impactful interviews I've
heard.
>> I that stayed with me for a long time.
>> of what I'm watching,
um
well, Morning Show just started back up
again. So we'll get back into that and I
loved Department Q.
I so did I. That was
>> So good. It was intense.
>> It was a little slow but they really it
really paid off.
If you like Department Q
um there's a movie, I want to say it's
on Netflix called Black Bag. That's the
same sort of espionage thing.
>> And I walked in on my wife watching um
Killing Eve. That was great. Which she's
like
Like I'm Queen's Gambit was great.
There's there's been a ton of stuff. We
we just finished The Gilded Age which is
>> that's feels modern. I'm obsessed with
that era in New York City. I have every
book written about it. I'm just so so
that is so right up my alley. So we
watched The Crown but we never watched
Downton Abbey and people said, "Oh, you
like Gilded Age and The Crown. Downton
Abbey is." So that's on my
uh and during the pandemic I had never
seen a single episode of Mad Men. And
that was mind-blowing to watch that.
That felt like more like a documentary.
>> to go back and watch some of the old
shows. Absolutely. All right, our last
two questions will get you out of here
on time.
Um
a recent college grad is interested in
the career in investing or doing market
strategy. What sort of advice would you
give them?
>> Well, the world you live in and
indirectly I live in on the advisor
side, that's an incredible growth area
in the broader
realm of financial services. Independent
RIAs, wealth management firms, even the
wealth management divisions at the big
wirehouse firms.
Because it's essentially a first
generation business.
And so there's a lot of succession
planning happening right now and I I
think for young investors that's such a
great avenue
to go in. More generic advice that I
give young people especially as they
embark on the networking and interview
part of the process is be way more
focused on being interested than being
interesting.
Uh don't go in there and say, "Here's
all the fabulous things have I done."
especially if it's that's limited to an
undergraduate education. But be
interested. Ask questions. Be engaged.
Uh show the enthusiasm that way. You're
not bringing something into the mix by
virtue of what, you know, Econ, you
know, 208 course you took that they
think, "Oh god, we have to hire this
person because we don't know anything
about that." So we're bringing It's It's
be interested. Huh, really interesting.
And our final question what do you know
about the world of investing today you
wish you knew back in the 1980s when
when you were first getting started?
It It seemed to be a little bit easier
to analyze markets in that day using
kind of traditional stuff.
Um models
to think now about how much more of an
influence there is of geopolitics and
macro and how much more complicated an
ecosystem not to mention the channels of
information that occur through social
media.
Uh I I kind of wish it was back to what
at the time didn't feel terribly simple
but I think then was a little bit more
simple and more concrete in terms of
what drives markets. I think there's
more psychology now with a wider band of
what that means and what that
represents. Um and it would have been
interesting to kind of know that in
advance. The little birdie landing on
your shoulder saying, "Here Here's what
Here's what
I don't know if I would have believed
that 40 years from that point I'd still
be doing this but uh
just how much more complex an ecosystem
that the markets live in these days.
Liz Ann, as always delightful. Thank you
so much for being so generous with your
time.
Always really really interesting. We
have been speaking with Liz Ann
Saunders, chief market strategist at
Schwab.
[Music]